# VRtualize-Pangeo

Welcome to Project Pangeo! Before you get started developing for the platform, please visit our Documentation folder
and view our documentation files to get familiarized with the project. Here is a brief overview of each of the files
included in the folder:

* SRS: This document is provided to give a detailed overview of the entire project. It describes the purpose and features of the project, the interface of the system, what the project will do, and what is required for the project to run.
* Test Plan: This document is provided to give a detailed overview of the testing approach used to test the Pangeo application as it was being developed. The document covers the testing strategies, implementation of testing practices, and management of testing practices.
* Technologies: This document is provided to give an overview of the technologies selected for implementation for the project. The document is designed as a living document to chronicle the design and selection process of technologies found inside the application. Note that because of the nature of the document, certain sections have been left in to note our thinking process evolution for future developers that might want to change implementations.
* User Manual: This document is provided as a generalized document that contains most of the information required to set-up and start the project, as well as other basic information pertaining to the project. The document includes installation instructions; required software for running the application, like MySQL and Unity; build instructions that explain how to build and run the application; and user guides to showcase controls and use cases of the application. The document also includes a brief section on how to run tests in Unity and where the tests are located in the file structure.
* Current State: This document gives a general overview of the current state of the project, as the name implies. This describes the file structure of the entire project, gives mention of future implementations we foresaw for the project, lists known bugs that we are aware of that need to be adjusted, a FAQ to help new developers when they may experience some of the more common quirks we encountered when using Unity, and a description of how testing was followed and what still needs to be done before release 1.0.
